                    Mysteries of the World
    When I stopped believing in Santa Claus is a silly inquiry
that can't even serve as a conversation opener. But if you must
know till when I believed in him, well, I'm pretty sure that I
never believed in this imaginary old man in a red suit from the
very beginning.
    The Santa that appeared at a Christmas event at my
kindergarten was a fake and I knew it. Come to think of it, as
far back as I can remember, all the other kids were equally
suspicious, eyeing the principal as though he was dressed
in a Santa costume for a play.
    Of course I never saw my mom kissing Santa Claus, but I was a
smart kid to doubt that an old man existed who only worked
at Christmastime. However, it took much longer for even an
intelligent kid like me to realize that spacemen, future-
men, ghosts, goblins, ESP, evil organizations and the like did not
exist in this world, nor did animated cartoon characters, special-
effect comic book archenemy heroes to fight them.
    Well, I may have known and pretended not to know. I must
admit that deep down inside, I was truly longing for an
encounter with spacemen, future-men, ghosts, goblins, ESP or
some secret, evil organization to happen to make their
appearance before me.
    Reality, you know, is tough.
    Actually, no kid had come to my class from another school. I
never saw a UFO. Local spots known for ghost or monster
appearances did not produce any. Gazing at a pencil lying on
the desk for two long hours failed to make it budge. Staring at
the back of the head of a classmate seated before me failed to help
me read his mind.
    After all, the laws of phsics in our world were well-
developed. I was both impressed and embarrassed by
my own innocence. I watched UFO, occult or ghost TV
specials less and less. I had a slight hope hooked on their
existence, but I was getting mature, beginning to think in
terms of the maximum common denominator: "They can't
be."
    By the time I was through with junior high, I was through
with my childish fantasies and became accustomed to
this-worldly ordinariness. My last ray of hope hung on the year
1999, but the year came and went uneventfully. At the beginning
of the 21st century, humankind has still not traveled anywhere
beyond the moon. In my lifetime, it doesn't look like anyone will
travel to Alpha Centauri and be back on the same day.
    These things still smoldering in the back of my mind, I finished
junior high school UNEVENTFULLY and moved on to senior high
school, where I encountered Suzumiya Haruhi.
