                    An Encounter : Enter Haruhi
    A young homeroom teacher named Mr. Okabe stepped onto
the podium and threw us a broad smile that he must have
practiced for close to an hour in front of mirror, and said that
he was Phys. Ed. teacher, a Handball Club advisor, and that he
did well in his university Handball Club which even won its way
in league tournaments. He commented that there were only a
few Handball Club members at our school, which meant that
anybody that joined would instantly qualify to compete as
regulars, and went to say that no other sport was as fun as
handball in this world. Having said all this, he was suddenly
quiet with nothing else to say and declared: "OK, I want all of
you to introduce yourselves."
    A rather usual development, and nothing to be surprised at as
it had been expected and I was ready, right?
    Boys and girls, seated alternately, in the order of their
names listed on the roster, stood up one by one and stated their
names, which junior high school they went to, plus some
additional info, such as what they liked to do, their favorite
food, etc. Some just mumbled, some were more eloquent, and
others attempted banal jokes, each one gradually chilling the
class atmosphere to the level of indifference, and my turn
approached. It was a tense moment. You know the feeling, right?
    Without getting tongue-tied, I said my minimum line that I
had formulated and sat down, relieved after completing
my duty. Then someone seated behind me stood up and said
something---Oh, I won't forget that for the rest of my life---
something we'd recall many times afterward.
    "I finished Higashi Junior High. Name is Suzumiya Haruhi."
    So far, it was ordinary, and I was too bored to turn around
and look at the seat right behind me, so I sat gazing ahead and
then heard a clear, crisp voice.
    "I'm not interested in ordinary people. Those of you who are
extraterrestrials, future-men, otherworldly beings and psychics,
come to me. Period."
    Was it a joke?
    Perhaps all of us wondered how to react. A big question mark
must have hung in everybody's head. "Are we supposed to
laugh now?"
    Now I know it. It was not a joke nor something to laugh off.
Suzumiya Haruhi never ever told jokes, whenever, wherever.
    She was always dead serious.
    And there was no mistake about it. Take it from someone
who'd learn it by living it.
    The Fairy of Silence hovered in the air for about 30 seconds
until the Phys. Ed. teacher Okabe pointed, somewhat
reluctantly, to the next student to continue. And the chilled
air in the ROOM gradually returned to normal.
    So that was our encounter. I truly hope that it was a
coincidence.
