                    Kyou, Ignorant of Haruhi' Past
    "Look," said I, casually turning back with an equally casual
broad smile on my face.
    "How serious were you when you said that part in your self-
introduction?"
    Suzumiya Haruhi, with her arms crossed and grimacing and
with the corners of her mouth turned down, looked straight into
my eyes and said, "What do you mean by 'that part'
in my self-introduction?"
    "Well, you said extraterrestrials and other things."
    "Are you an extraterrestrial?"
    She had the nerve to ask in earnest.
    "No, but... ."
    "But What?"
    "Never mind. Forget it."
    "Then don't talk to me. You're wasting my time."

    "Hey, I saw you talking to Suzumiya the other day," said
Taniguchi without much ado. Well, I'd better just nod.
    "I bet she turned you down by saying her gibberish, right?
    That was exactly right.

    Taniguchi put sliced boiled egg into his mouth and said, while
munching, "If you're interested in her, listen to my good advice.
You'd better forget it. You already know how far=fetched she is,
man!"
    First informing me that he knew her well as he was in the
same class as Suzumiya all through the three years of junior high,
Taniguchi said, "Her eccentricity is way beyond the ordinary. I
thought she'd calm down a bit now that she is a senior high
kid, but she hasn't changed at all. You heard what she said in that
self-introduction."
    "That part about extraterrestrials and other things?" Kunikida,
carefully removing small bones from a slice of baked fish,
interrupted.
    "True. In junior high, she said lots of nonsense and did lots of
nonsense. A lot of it. One notorious incident was the
huge graffiti in the schoolyard."
    "What's that?"
    "You know that little pushcart with lime they use to draw white
lines? What do you call that stuff? Oh, whatever. She used 
that thing to draw huge, strange pictograms of some sort in the
schoolyard. She dared sneak into school during the dead of
night."
    He must be recalling the incident: Taniguchi put on a
knowing grin.
    "Wait to hear this. We all showed up at school one morning
and found gigantic circles, triangles and other strange forms
all over the playground. Up close, you couldn't tell what they
were, so I climbed up the school building and looked down from
the fourth floor. I still couldn't figure out what they were."
    "Ah, I remember seeing that. On a local page of the
newspaper, perhaps? It was an aerial photograph, looking like
badly drawn lines and geoglyphs of Nazca."
    "Another morning, I walked into our classroom and found all
our desks thrown out into the hallway. She painted a large star on
the roof of one of the school buildings. At another time, there
were weird-looking talismans pasted all over the school, you
know, that good luck paper that Jiangshi carried around pasted
on his face. Couldn't figure her out."
    
    "But she's popular among boys," Taniguchi kept talking.

    "Look, she's pretty to start with. And she's such an athlete.
Her grades aren't bad either. You can't tell she's eccentric
if she was just standing there, without saying anything."
    "So there are other interesting stories about her
relationships?" asked Kunikida. He hadn't eaten half as
much as Taniguchi.  
