                    Mysteries of the World
    When I stopped believing in Santa Claus is a silly inquiry
that can't even serve as a conversation opener. But if you must
know till when I believed in him, well, I'm pretty sure that I
never believed in this imaginary old man in a red suit from the
very beginning. 
    The Santa that appeared at a Christmas event at my
kindergarten was a fake and I knew it. Come to think of it, as
far back as I can remember, all the other kids were equally
suspicious, eyeing the principal as though he was dressed 
in a Santa costume for a play.
    Of course I never saw my mom kissing Santa claus, but I was a
smart kid to doubt that an old man who existed only worked
at Christmastime. However, it took much longer for even an
intelligent kid like me to realize that spacemen, future-
men, ghosts, goblins, ESP, evil organizations and the like did not
exist in this world, nor did animated cartoon characters, special-
effect comic book archenemy heroes to fight them.
    Well, I may have known and pretended not to know. I must
admit that deep down inside, I was truly longing for an
encounter with spacemen, future-men, ghosts, goblins, ESP or
some secret, evil organization to happen to make their
appearance before me.
    Reality, you know, is tough.
    Actually, no kid had come to my class from another school. I
never saw a UFO. Local spots known for ghost or monster
appearances did not produce any. Gazing at a pencil lying on
the desk for two long hours failed to make it budge. Staring at
the back of the head of a classmate seated before me failed to help
me read his mind.
    After all, the laws of physics in our world were well-
developed. I was both impressed and embarrassed at
my own innocence. I watched UFO, occult or ghost TV
specials less than less. I had a slight hope hooked on the year
1999, but the year came and went uneventfully. At the beginning
of the 21st century, humankind has still not traveled anywhere
beyond the moon. In my lifetime, it doesn't look like anyone will
travel to Alpha Centauri and be back on the same day.
    These things still smoldering in the back of my mind, I finished
junior high school uneventfully and moved on to senior high
school, where I encountered Suzumiya Haruhi.

                    Haruhi on the Runway
    It was still April. At this time, Suzumiya Haruhi was still well-
behaved; therefore, it was a restful month for me. Haruhi's
full-blown antics were still a little less then a month away.
    And yet, I should say that signs of her weird behavior were
beginning to show up, bit by bit, around this time.
    First sign of eccentricity:
    Her hairstyle changed every day. Just looking at her changing
hairdos somehow, a regular pattern dawned on me. That is
to say ... on Mondays, Haruhi showed up with her long, straight
hair down her back. The next day, she appeared with an
impeccable ponytail, which became her the way I could not
describe. Then the next day, her hair was down in twin tails,
like two ponytails hanging at the sides of her head. On the
following day, she wore her hair in a three-band braid. On
Fridays, she sported her weirdest hairdo: her hair was divided
into four arbitrary parts and then tied with ribbons into
different strands.
    Monday---zero partition
    Tuesday---one bundle
    Wednesday---two bundles
