                    Haruhi on the Runway
    It was still April. At this time, Suzumiya Haruhi was still well-
behaved; therefore, it was a restful month for me. Haruhi's
full-blown antics were still a little less then a month away.
    And yet, I should say that signs of her weird behavior were
beginning to show up, bit by bit, around this time.
    First sign of eccentricity:
    Her hairstyle changed every day. Just looking at her changing
hairdos somehow, a regular pattern dawned on me. That is
to say ... on Mondays, Haruhi showed up with her long, straight
hair down her back. The next day, she appeared with an
impeccable ponytail, which became her the way I could not
describe. Then the next day, her hair was down in twin tails,
like two ponytails hanging at the sides of her head. On the
following day, she wore her hair in a three-band braid. On
Fridays, she sported her weirdest hairdo: her hair was divided
into four arbitrary parts and then tied with ribbons into
different strands.
    Monday---zero partition
    Tuesday---one bundle
    Wednesday---two bundles

    In short, the tied hair sections increased as the week
progressed. Her hairstyle was reset on Monday, and the same
routine of adding one extra bundle was repeated till
Friday. Of course, comprehending all of this was beyond me.
If there was any formula, she would have six bundles at the end
of the week, so I was a little tempted to check that out on
Sundays.

    Second sign of eccentricity:
    Our Phys. Ed. classes were divided by gender, so kids in
Class 5 and Class 6 were combined. Since we had to change
into sports gear in our own classrooms, the girls moved to the
odd-numbered classroom and the boys moved to the even-
numbered classroom. Naturally, the boys from Class 5 picked up
their sports bags and migrated to Class 6.
    Amidst all this commotion, Suzumiya Haruhi started taking
off her sailor-blouse school uniform while some boys were still
lingering in the room.
    The nonchalant look on her face proved that she
reckoned the boys around to be no more than pumpkins or
potatoes. She'd throw the clothes she just removed on her desk
and reach for her gym clothes.

    Third sign of eccentricity:
    As a rule, Haruhi disappeared during every recess. The minute
school was over, she would grab her school bag and leave the
classroom. At first, I thought she went straight home, but that
wasn't the case. Amazingly, Haruhi was trying out every
after-school club offered at our school. I spotted her dribbling
a ball in the Basketball Club one day, and on the next day, she was
in the Handicrafts Club, sewing a pillowcase stitch by stitch. And
the very next day, you'd find her swinging that bat in the Lacrosse
Club. She was thorough, as I heard that she also tried out the
Baseball Club. Without a single exception, all the sports clubs
went out of their way to solicit her membership, which Haruhi
would turn down one after another. Club-hopping every day,
she ended up not joining any.
    So what was it that she wanted to do?

    In no time, these inexplicable actions earned her a
reputation that was transmitted far and wide across the
school: "There's a weird new girl this year." It took only a month
before there was nobody that did not know Suzumiya Haruhi. By
early May, while there were some who could not remember the
principal's name, there was absolutely no one who did not 
know the name Suzumiya Haruhi.


                    Haruhi "Befriends" Kyou?
    During all of these antics---Haruhi being the one doing the
antics, of course---time wore on and May rolled in.

    I walked into the classroom and found Suzumiya haruhi
already in the seat behind me, looking cool, her face turned to
look outside of the window. That day, her hair was parted into
two doorknobs, or buns, so I sat down, thinking, OK, two buns.
Today must be Wednesday. I don't know what came over me,
because nothing would movitate me to talk to her, but when I
came to my senses, I found myself talking to Suzumiya Haruhi.
    "Changing your hairstyle according to the days of the week...is
it some kind of a spaceman strategy?"
    Moving like a robot, Haruhi turned her neck toward me and
stared at me, in her usual grimace. She was a bit scary.
    "When did you notice?"
    She asked as if talking to a roadside pebble.
    Come to think of it, I could not recall exactly when.
    "Ah, well ... a little while ago."
    "Ah, so?"
    With a bored look, she rested her cheeks in her hands on the
desk and said, "I think different days of the week give off
different images."
    This was our first conversation.
    "In terms of color, yellow is the Monday color. Red is for
Tuesday, blue for Wednesday, green for Thursday, gold for Friday
and brown for Saturday. Of course Sunday's color is white."
    I could follow that line of thought.
    "Which means, in terms of numbers, Monday corresponds
to zero and Sunday to six?"
    "Right."
    "To me, Monday feels like Number One."
    "Who's asking how you feel?"
    "... Uh, okay."
    Giving up,
