                    Mysteries of the World
    When I stopped believing in Santa Claus is a silly inquiry
that can't even serve as a conversation opener. But if you must
know till when I believed in him, well, I'm Pretty sure that I
never believed in this imaginary old man in a red suit from the
very beginning.
    The Santa that appeared at a Christmas event at my
kindergarten was a fake and I knew it. Come to think of it, as
far back as I can remember, all the other kids were equally
suspicious, eyeing the principal as though her was dressed
in a Santa costume for a play.
    Of course I never saw my mom kissing Santa Claus, but I was a
smart kid to doubt that an old man existed who only worked
at Christmastime. However, it took much longer for even an
intelligent kid like me to realize that spacemen, future-
men, ghosts, goblins, ESP, evil organizations and the like did not
exist in this world, nor did animated cartoon characters, special-
effect comic book archenemy heroes to fight them.
    Well, I may have known and pretended not to know. I must
admit that deep down inside, I was truly longing for an
encounter with spacemen, future-men, ghosts, goblins, ESP or
some secret, evil organization to happen to make their
appearance before me.
    Reality, you know, is tough.
    Actually, no kid had come to my class from another school. I
never saw a UFO. Local spots known for ghost or monster
appearances did not produce any. Gazing at a pencil lying on
the desk for two long hours failed to make it budge. Staring at
the back of the head of a classmate seated before me failed to help
me read his mind.
    After all, the laws of physics in our world were well-
developed. I was both impressed and embarrassed by
my own innocence. I watched UFO, occult or ghost TV
specials less and less. I had a slight hope hooked on their
existence, but I was getting mature, beginning to think in
terms of the maximum common denominator: "They can't
be."
    By the time I was through with junior high, I was through
with my childish fantasies and became accustomed at
this-worldly ordinariness. My last ray of hope hung on the year
1999, but the year came and went uneventfully. At the beginning
of the 21st century, humankind has still not traveled anywhere
beyond the moon. In my lifetime, it doesn't look like anyone will
travel to Alpha Centauri and be back on the same day.
    These things still smoldering in the back of my mind, I finished
junior high school uneventfully and moved on to senior high
school, where I encountered Suzumiya Haruhi.


                    Haruhi "Befriends" Kyou?
    During all of these antics---Haruhi being the one doing the
antics, of course---time wore on and May rolled in.

    I walked into the classroom and found Suzumiya Haruhi
already in the seat behind me, looking cool, her face turned to
look outside of the window. That day, her hair was parted into
two doorknobs, or buns, so I sat down, thinking, OK, two buns.
Today must be Wednesday. I don't know what came over me,
because nothing would movitate me to talk to her, but when I
came to my senses, I found myself talking to Suzumiya Haruhi.
    "Changing your hairstyle according to the days of the week...is
it some kind of a spaceman strategy?"
    Moving like a robot, Haruhi turned her neck toward me and
stared at me, in her usual grimace. She was a bit scary.
    "When did you notice?"
    She asked as if talking to a roadside pebble.
    Come to think of it, I could not recall exactly when.
    "Ah, well ... a little while ago."
    "Ah, so?"
    With a bored look, she rested her cheeks in her hands on the
desk and said, "I think different days of the week give off
different images."
    This was our first conversation.
    "In terms of color, yellow is the Monday color. Red is for
Tuesday, blue for Wednesday, green for Thursday, gold for Friday
and brown for Saturday. Of course Sunday's color is white."
    I could follow that line of thought.
    "Which means, in terms of numbers, Monday corresponds
to zero and Sunday to six?"
    "Right."
    "To me, Monday feels like Number One."
    "Who's asking how you feel?"
    "...Uh, okay."
    Giving up, I must have put on an expression that Haruhi
did not like. Frowning, she stared at me and let enough time
elapse until something insecure welled up in my mind and
then asked, "Did I meet you somewhere before? A long time
ago?"
    "No," I answered, and this ended our conversation when
our homeroom teacher, Mr. Okabe, entered our classroom jauntily.

    Things get started with something banal and corny. Come
to think of it, it was this conversation that triggered everything
else.
