                    Kyou, Ignorant of Haruhi's Past
    "Look," said I, casually turning back with an equally casual
broad smile on my face.
    "How serious were you when you said that part in your self-
introduction?"
    Suzumiya Haruhi, with her arms crossed and grimacing and
with the corners of her mouth turned down, looked straight into
my eyes and said, "What do you mean by 'that part'
in my self-introduction?"
    "Well, you said extraterrestrials and other things."
    "Are you an extraterrestrial?"
    She had the nerve to ask in earnest.
    "No, but... ."
    "But what?"
    "Never mind. Forget it."
    "Then don't talk to me. You're wasting my time."

    "Hey, I saw you talking to Suzumiya the other day," said
Taniguchi without much ado. Well, I'd better just nod.
    "I bet she turned you down by saying her gibberish, right?"
    That was exactly right.

    Taniguchi put sliced boiled egg into his mouth and said, while
munching, "If you're interested in her, listen to my good advice.
You'd better forget it. You already know how far-fetched she is,
man!"
    First informing me that he knew her well as he was in the
same class as Suzumiya all through the three years of junior high,
Taniguchi said, "Her eccentricity is way beyond the ordinary. I
thought she'd calm down a bit now that she is a senior high
kid, but she hasn't changed at all. You heard what she said in that
self-introduction."
    "That part about extraterrestrials and other things?" Kunikida,
carefully removing small bones from a slice of baked fish,
interrupted.
    "True. In junior high, she said lots of nonsense and did lots of
nonsense. A lot of it. One notorious incident was the
huge graffiti in the schoolyard."
    "What's that?"
    "You know that little pushcart with lime they use to draw white
lines? What do you call that stuff? Oh, whatever. She used
that thing to draw huge, strange pictograms of some sort in the
schoolyard. She dared sneak into school during the dead of
night."
    He must be recalling the incident: Taniguchi put on a
knowing grin.
    "Wait to hear this. We all showed up at school one morning
and found gigantic circles, triangles and other strange forms
all over the playground. Up close, you couldn't tell what they
were, so I climbed up the school building and looked down from
the fourth floor. I still couldn't figure out what they were."
    "Ah, I remember seeing that. On a local page of the
newspaper, perhaps? It was an aerial photograph, looking like
badly drawn lines and geoglyphs of Nazca."
    "Another morning, I walked into our classroom and found all
our desks thrown our into the hallway. She painted a large star on
the roof of one of the school buildings. At another time, there
were weird-looking talismans pasted all over the school, you
know, that good luck paper that Jiangshi carried around pasted
on his face. Couldn't figure her out."

    "But she's popular among boys," Taniguchi kept talking.

    "Look, she's pretty to start with. And she's such an athlete.
Her grades aren't bad either. You can't tell she's eccentric
if she was just standing there, without saying anything."
    "So there are other interesting stories about her
relationship?" asked Kunikida. He hadn't eaten half as
much as Taniguchi.
    "At one time, she'd just go out with all the boys, switch
from one guy to another. The longest relationship, as far as I
know, lasted a week, and the shortest one, only five minutes
after a guy said he like her. So I heard. Of course, it was always
Suzumiya who 'called it quits,' always saying that same line: 'I've
got no time asscoiating with ordinary humans.' She shouldn't
have agreed to go out with them in the first place."
    Maybe this guy was one of those boys Suzumiya had turned
down with that line. Perhaps noticing my knowing gaze,
Taniguchi said, hurriedly, "That's what I heard. Serious. Don't
know why, but when a guy confesses he likes her, she
wouldn't say no. She is that way. By the time we were in the 9th
grade, guys all knew this, so noboyd ventured to ask
Suzumiya out. But I get this feeling that the same things will
happen all over again in high school. So let me warn you before
this silly notion gets in your head. Just don't. I happen to be
your classmate, so I give you this advice as a friend."
    He said don't do it, but I had such no intention anyway.
    Putting away the lunchbox into his school bag, Taniguchi
grinned and said, "If I were you, I'd pick that girl, Asakura
Ryoko. She's got to be the best girl in our class."
    He shook his chin toward a group of girls, who had put their
desks together to engage in a happy, lively chat. Among them,
Asakura Ryoko stood out with her broad smile, seated in the
center of all the girls.
    "The way I see it, she's one of the top three among this year's
freshmen."
    Why, did you check up on all the new girls who started high
school this year?
    "Sure thing. I checked them up and sorted them out into
four ranks, A to D. All the girls in Rank A... I know them by their
full names. Hey, you go to high school only once in your life, so
why don't we have a great time?"
    "So, Asakura is a Rank A girl?" asked Kunikida.
    "She's AA Rank Plus, I'd say. A savvy guy like me looks at a
girl's face and can even tell her character. She's got to be a
nice girl, too."


                    Haruhi "Befriends" Kyou?
    During all of these antics---Haruhi being the one doing the
antics, of course---time wore on and May rolled in.

    I walked into the classroom and found Suzumiya Haruhi
already in the seat behind me, looking cool, her face turned to
look outside of the window. That day, her hair was parted into
two doorknobs, or buns, so I sat down, thinking, OK, two buns.
Today must be Wednesday. I don't know what came over me,
because nothing would motivate me to talk to her, but when I
came to my senses, I found myself talking to Suzumiya Haruhi.
    "Changing your hairstyle according to the days of the week...is
it some kind of a spaceman strategy?"
    Moving like a robot, Haruhi turned her neck toward me and
stared at me, in her usual grimace. She was a bit scary.
    "When did you notice?"
    She asked as if talking to a roadside pebble.
    Come to think of it, I could not recall exactly when.
    "Ah, well... a little while ago."
    "Ah, so?"
